docs/t-sql/functions/unistr-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "UNISTR (Transact-SQL)"
description: The UNISTR function provides support for Unicode string literals and returns the Unicode output for the input expression.
author: abhimantiwari
ms.author: abhtiwar
ms.reviewer: randolphwest, wiassaf, umajay
ms.date: 06/04/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: t-sql
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UNISTR"
  - "UNISTR_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unicode escape sequence [SQL Server]"
  - "UNISTR function"
  - "unistr [SQL Server], UNISTR function"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: "=azuresqldb-current"
---
# UNISTR (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [asdb](../../includes/applies-to-version/asdb.md)]

`UNISTR` provides support for Unicode string literals by letting you specify the Unicode encoding value of characters in the string. `UNISTR` returns the Unicode characters corresponding to the input expression, as defined by the Unicode standard.

The escape sequence for a Unicode character can be specified in the form of `\xxxx` or `\+xxxxxx`, where `xxxx` is a valid UTF-16 codepoint value, and `xxxxxx` is a valid Unicode codepoint value. You can look up Unicode codepoint values in the [Unicode Code Charts](https://www.unicode.org/charts).

Compared to functions like `NCHAR`, `UNISTR` provides a more flexible and comprehensive way to handle Unicode characters. For example, while `NCHAR` can convert a single Unicode value to a character, `UNISTR` handles multiple Unicode values and escape sequences, making it easier to work with complex strings that include various Unicode characters.

Here are key benefits of using `UNISTR`:

- **Support for Unicode escape sequences**: `UNISTR` allows you to specify Unicode characters using escape sequences

- **Flexibility with input types**: `UNISTR` supports various character types such as **char**, **nchar**, **varchar**, and **nvarchar**. For **char** and **varchar** data types, the collation should be a valid UTF-8 collation.

- **Custom escape characters**: You can define a custom escape character to perform the necessary conversion of Unicode values into a string character set.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

## Syntax

```syntaxsql
UNISTR ( 'character_expression' [ , 'unicode_escape_character' ] )
```

## Arguments

#### '*character_expression*'

An expression of any character type, such as **char**, **nchar**, **varchar**, or **nvarchar**. For **char** and **varchar** data types, the collation should be a valid UTF-8 collation. You can specify either string literals or Unicode or UTF-16 code point values or both. `character_expression` supports a length as large as **varchar(max)** and **nvarchar(max)**. 

#### N'*unicode_escape_character*'

A single character representing a user-defined Unicode escape sequence. If not supplied, the default value is `\`.

## Return types

A string value whose length and type depend on the input types.

## Examples

### A. Use UNISTR vs the NCHAR function

The following examples all use the `UNISTR` functions to perform the necessary conversion of the Unicode values into string character set, to display the unicode character Smiling Face With Open Mouth. The database collation must be a [UTF-8 collation](../../relational-databases/collations/collation-and-unicode-support.md) if the input is of
**char** or **varchar** data types.

Using `UNISTR` and `NCHAR`:

```sql
SELECT N'Hello! ' + NCHAR(0xd83d) + NCHAR(0xde00);
```

This sample example can also be written:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR(N'Hello! \D83D\DE00');

SELECT UNISTR(N'Hello! \+01F603');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
-----------
Hello! 😃
```

### B. Use UNISTR function with user defined escape character

The following example uses the `UNISTR` function with a custom escape character to perform the necessary conversion of the Unicode into a string character set.

```sql
SELECT UNISTR(N'ABC#00C0#0181#0187', '#');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
-----------
ABCÀƁƇ
```

### C. Use UNISTR function by combining string literals and Unicode code points

In the following example, `UNISTR` is used with a user-defined escape character (`$`) and a **varchar** data type with UTF-8 collation. It combines string literals with a Unicode codepoint value:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR ('I $2665 Azure SQL.' COLLATE Latin1_General_100_CI_AS_KS_SC_UTF8, '$');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
------------------
I ♥ Azure SQL.
```

### D. Use UNISTR function for characters beyond the UTF-8 limit

If you need to use a character set beyond UTF-8, you must convert the character sequence to UTF-8 using the `COLLATE` clause. Here's an example:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR ('\306F\3044' COLLATE Latin1_General_100_BIN2_UTF8) AS Yes_in_Japanese_Hiragana;
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
Yes_in_Japanese_Hiragana
------------------------
はい
```

## Related content

- [ASCII (Transact-SQL)](ascii-transact-sql.md)
- [CHAR (Transact-SQL)](char-transact-sql.md)
- [NCHAR (Transact-SQL)](nchar-transact-sql.md)
- [String Functions (Transact-SQL)](string-functions-transact-sql.md)
- [Collation and Unicode support](../../relational-databases/collations/collation-and-unicode-support.md)

Commit message:

Add note on UNISTR function compatibility.

docs/t-sql/functions/unistr-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "UNISTR (Transact-SQL)"
description: The UNISTR function provides support for Unicode string literals and returns the Unicode output for the input expression.
author: abhimantiwari
ms.author: abhtiwar
ms.reviewer: randolphwest, wiassaf, umajay
ms.date: 06/04/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: t-sql
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UNISTR"
  - "UNISTR_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unicode escape sequence [SQL Server]"
  - "UNISTR function"
  - "unistr [SQL Server], UNISTR function"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: "=azuresqldb-current"
---
# UNISTR (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [asdb](../../includes/applies-to-version/asdb.md)]

`UNISTR` provides support for Unicode string literals by letting you specify the Unicode encoding value of characters in the string. `UNISTR` returns the Unicode characters corresponding to the input expression, as defined by the Unicode standard.

The escape sequence for a Unicode character can be specified in the form of `\xxxx` or `\+xxxxxx`, where `xxxx` is a valid UTF-16 codepoint value, and `xxxxxx` is a valid Unicode codepoint value. You can look up Unicode codepoint values in the [Unicode Code Charts](https://www.unicode.org/charts).

Compared to functions like `NCHAR`, `UNISTR` provides a more flexible and comprehensive way to handle Unicode characters. For example, while `NCHAR` can convert a single Unicode value to a character, `UNISTR` handles multiple Unicode values and escape sequences, making it easier to work with complex strings that include various Unicode characters.

Here are key benefits of using `UNISTR`:

- **Support for Unicode escape sequences**: `UNISTR` allows you to specify Unicode characters using escape sequences

- **Flexibility with input types**: `UNISTR` supports various character types such as **char**, **nchar**, **varchar**, and **nvarchar**. For **char** and **varchar** data types, the collation should be a valid UTF-8 collation.

- **Custom escape characters**: You can define a custom escape character to perform the necessary conversion of Unicode values into a string character set.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

> [!NOTE]  
>The UNISTR function is not compatible with legacy code pages, meaning it does not support collations that use non-Unicode character sets. These collations with legacy code pages can be identified using the query below or be found listed here [Appendix G DBCS/Unicode Mapping Tables](/previous-versions/cc194886(v=msdn.10)) and [Appendix H Code Pages](/previous-versions/cc195051(v=msdn.10)):


> ```sql
>SELECT DISTINCT p.language,
>                p.codepage
>FROM   sys.Fn_helpcollations() AS c
>       CROSS apply (VALUES(LEFT(c.NAME, Charindex('_', c.NAME) - 1),
>                   Collationproperty(c.NAME, 'codepage'))) AS p(language,
>                   codepage)
>WHERE  p.codepage NOT IN ( 0 /* Unicode Only collation */, 65001
>                         /* UTF-8 code page */ ); 
>```




## Syntax

```syntaxsql
UNISTR ( 'character_expression' [ , 'unicode_escape_character' ] )
```

## Arguments

#### '*character_expression*'

An expression of any character type, such as **char**, **nchar**, **varchar**, or **nvarchar**. For **char** and **varchar** data types, the collation should be a valid UTF-8 collation. You can specify either string literals or Unicode or UTF-16 code point values or both. `character_expression` supports a length as large as **varchar(max)** and **nvarchar(max)**. 

#### N'*unicode_escape_character*'

A single character representing a user-defined Unicode escape sequence. If not supplied, the default value is `\`.

## Return types

A string value whose length and type depend on the input types.

## Examples

### A. Use UNISTR vs the NCHAR function

The following examples all use the `UNISTR` functions to perform the necessary conversion of the Unicode values into string character set, to display the unicode character Smiling Face With Open Mouth. The database collation must be a [UTF-8 collation](../../relational-databases/collations/collation-and-unicode-support.md) if the input is of
**char** or **varchar** data types.

Using `UNISTR` and `NCHAR`:

```sql
SELECT N'Hello! ' + NCHAR(0xd83d) + NCHAR(0xde00);
```

This sample example can also be written:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR(N'Hello! \D83D\DE00');

SELECT UNISTR(N'Hello! \+01F603');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
-----------
Hello! 😃
```

### B. Use UNISTR function with user defined escape character

The following example uses the `UNISTR` function with a custom escape character to perform the necessary conversion of the Unicode into a string character set.

```sql
SELECT UNISTR(N'ABC#00C0#0181#0187', '#');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
-----------
ABCÀƁƇ
```

### C. Use UNISTR function by combining string literals and Unicode code points

In the following example, `UNISTR` is used with a user-defined escape character (`$`) and a **varchar** data type with UTF-8 collation. It combines string literals with a Unicode codepoint value:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR ('I $2665 Azure SQL.' COLLATE Latin1_General_100_CI_AS_KS_SC_UTF8, '$');
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
------------------
I ♥ Azure SQL.
```

### D. Use UNISTR function for characters beyond the UTF-8 limit

If you need to use a character set beyond UTF-8, you must convert the character sequence to UTF-8 using the `COLLATE` clause. Here's an example:

```sql
SELECT UNISTR ('\306F\3044' COLLATE Latin1_General_100_BIN2_UTF8) AS Yes_in_Japanese_Hiragana;
```

[!INCLUDE [ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]

```output
Yes_in_Japanese_Hiragana
------------------------
はい
```

## Related content

- [ASCII (Transact-SQL)](ascii-transact-sql.md)
- [CHAR (Transact-SQL)](char-transact-sql.md)
- [NCHAR (Transact-SQL)](nchar-transact-sql.md)
- [String Functions (Transact-SQL)](string-functions-transact-sql.md)
- [Collation and Unicode support](../../relational-databases/collations/collation-and-unicode-support.md)
